OKLAHOMA CITY -- In two different moments on Sunday, the same-but-different magnetism of Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook was on full display against the Phoenix Suns.

In the first quarter, Westbrook picked Markieff Morris' pocket and for the next few seconds, the world waited to see what kind of ridiculous thing the jet-fueled Oklahoma City Thunder point guard would come up with. As he hit the 3-point line, he checked over his shoulder to make sure he had it all to himself, and went for a straight-forward tomahawk, but the kind where he tried to rip the rim off the backboard like he was King Kong.

"It was good," Westbrook said. "To be able to get out in transition, get the crowd involved and obviously get my guys and everyone else going as well."

What possessed him to go for that though?

"I don't know," Westbrook said, who finished with 21 points, six rebounds, 13 assists and four steals. "I just go for it, I guess. I don't think, I just go. That's half of my problem."


The Thunder know what to expect from Kevin Durant but are still experimenting with the rotation behind him. AP Photo/Sue Ogrocki
Durant, on the other hand, sealed the Thunder's 124-103 win against the Phoenix Suns with a flurry of shots in the fourth quarter, the prettiest being a 20-foot "Dirk" over guard Eric Bledsoe. If there was such a thing as posterizing someone with a jumper, Durant did it to Bledsoe, and then busted out a large grin as back-peddaled back on defense.

"E-Bled talks a lot of s---," said Durant, who had 32 points, 11 rebounds and four assists in 32 minutes. "And I'm a major s---talker myself."

After three straight losses, it's not that there was any burgeoning worry percolating inside the Thunder locker room, but there certainly has been a consistent underlying anxiety hovering around the team, despite it being early November. New coach, new players, and of course, the attention being cast on all things Durant, from his injury comeback to his undetermined future. Any isolated loss can be painted in a negative light for 24 hours, but with awaiting storylines ready to be teed up, three of them in a row can be the beginning of something more sinister.

"We need to go through these times," Durant said. "It's vital for our success. It's vital for our growth. We need go through it. It's not good going through it, it's not fun, but we need to. New system, new lineups, different time, we need to go through rough patches. You can definitely win games not playing well, but for us to lose games, it definitely helps us out. We just need to keep building."

The outclassing of the Suns, though, was pretty ideal for the Thunder. It was standard while still containing positive signs of growth and development. Billy Donovan continued to tinker with his rotation, throwing out a new second unit combination that in the first quarter blew a 15-point lead in a matter of minutes, but then came back to it again in the late third and early fourth, to which it increased the Thunder's lead. Mitch McGary saw his first meaningful rotation minutes of the season, while Nick Collison and Anthony Morrow both received DNP-CDs.

"Certainly, trying to get into a rotation is important. I think also trying to give those guys confidence coming in there," Donovan said. "Kevin and Russell and Serge, those three guys in particular, they've obviously been here a while and experienced a lot of success. But we need to continue to build the group around them. I think that's really, really important. There are going to be times where have some dips like we had in that first quarter, but we're going to have to play through that because we've got to build the entire team.

"I don't think as coach with your team want to say we're locked in and we're never changing and this is who we want to be the rest of the year because things can change," Donovan said. "You get foul trouble, you get injuries, you have different things you have to deal with. I think all our guys need to be prepared and ready to play and made to feel important. I think that's one of the things I've tried to do at least these first five or six games is try and keep everyone engaged."

To Donovan's point, it's pretty clear what the Thunder are going to get from Durant, Westbrook and often times, Serge Ibaka. They've been the core of title contending team the past five or six seasons, a group of players that on their own elevate the Thunder to being elite. The question with them has been in filling in the cracks around them, in finding a way to produce a deeper, more rounded roster. For the first time in the OKC-era, the team had two bench players score at least 19 points.

"That shows how deep we are a team," Durant said. "We've just got to put it together and be consistent with it. I'm sure it was Dion and ..."

Durant looked up for some help. It was Enes Kanter, who finished with 21 on 9-of-10 shooting to go with Dion Waiters' 19 on 6-of-9.

"It makes it even better if you don't know who it is."

Not an intentional oversight by Durant, but that is the general idea taking shape for the Thunder, a new unpredictability as they work to change over time. There will always be the constants of Westbrook and Durant, but it's the finer edges that need work. And the only way for the Thunder to get there is through experimentation, something Donovan clearly isn't afraid of.